let's talk course logistics this isn't a
fun topic but for those of you who are
taking this class for credit this stuff
probably important to you everybody else
moving in skipper I'll note that this
slide is green so if you're someone
who's watching the webcasts because you
prefer to see the live version of this
these will always be green so you can
easily find it if you're skimming
through a 50 minute video so force
logistics first of all we have a bunch
of different places to give information
so we have this course website here
which is data structures very clever
we actually in deepen the tradition we
would have done say a 61b org but
somebody sneaked it and I guess it's
available for sale but I will never
reward domain snipers so that's gonna be
the main place where everything is and I
encourage you to go there to find
everything we will also have lectures
which I'm doing here there's also
webcasts for the live lecture each
semester so that you can see what really
happened in the room we have a Piazza
discussion forum we have office hours
that are in 109 Morgan and then we also
of course have our various places where
we get together we have lab and
discussion and in addition to these
scheduled times for lab and discussion
we also have guerilla sections which
will be special discussion sections
we'll talk about later which are mastery
learning based or your working groups
until everybody gets the problem we'll
have group tutoring sections for those
of you who want a little extra help five
on one or even one on one and then
there's also this little textbook which
I don't have a name for it yet so it's
just called hug 61 B for now and that is
linked just on the main page
these readings here are part of that
little text and the goal with that was
just to build a free online resource
that was really tailored to 61 B if you
don't really like it there's alternate
readings on the spring 16 version of the
course that you can check out instead so
it's all the official places or you can
get information for this course and then
of course are a bunch of unofficial
channels I welcome you as you're working
through the class to go googling for
things but of course please do not
Google solutions that the homeworks
because you will not learn things by
looking at them it won't work out so if
you are somebody enrolled in the class
and you're on the waitlist if you do
project zero I'll do whatever I can to
get you in by week four I don't have a
lot of power to get people into the
class but I can at least tell people to
I don't try and do something this week
or at least in the beginning of the
class we're gonna have the morning
sections are gonna be really popular and
the evening ones less so so if you don't
have a particular discussion or lab you
go to any section or lab but if you are
already enrolled in a section I ask that
you try and go to the one that you're
officially registered for that way we
don't get super overcrowded that's
especially important in the lab so maybe
hover outside the room for the first you
know two minutes before sight for the
first two minutes before the class
starts and they have this room go on in
and then after a tenant settles you
could do whatever you want but for now
wall thinks are crowded make sure to be
courteous to your fellow student if you
do get to a section and it's super full
a priority will go to those who are
officially registered if you have any
administrative issues we ask that you
post it to the discussion forums or if
you'd like you can send an email to CS
61 be at Berkeley what I ask is you
don't email me directly with logistical
issues because I won't be as helpful of
somebody else because I'm probably just
gonna send you to someone else anyway
and the other thing is that with over a
thousand students if you actually do the
math if I were to say hey everybody come
meet me for just one minute
that would take twenty two hours to
complete that process so logistical
emails you know even if they're taking
only a small amount of time it adds up
now as far as the course goes perhaps
more interesting to you this course is
broken into three parts this is the new
vision for 61b that I tried out last
spring so the first part is an
introduction to javo that's oriented
around data structures what we're gonna
do is learn Java in the context of
building lists so I've used lists in
some language like Python before in this
class we're gonna kick off learning Java
by thinking about different ways to
build lists and then it'll give us the
syntax we need to move forward so what
we're gonna have during this time we
have an optional homework 0 that's
already out that I encourage you to do
if you haven't yeah we will have three
labs during this period that are gonna
introduce you to all the real world
tools we're gonna be using throughout
the semester and I'll warn you in
advance it's gonna be annoying things
are not gonna work at first you're gonna
have to beat your head against the wall
but I think that's a really important
thing for you to learn how to do so I've
resisted the urge to try and just write
the master installer that just installs
everything because they think it is
really
importantly you know how to deal with
the messiness of say the command line
and installing software and getting
things working because you'll be doing
it forever that will also have two
projects project zero and one and those
are going to be our programming homework
during that period a couple of little
projects phase 2 will be the advanced
programming part of the class and this
is the part where you're gonna really
get a chance to design something you're
gonna work in a team of people a pair of
people kind of will talk about how it's
a little more complicated much later but
basically we'll work with a group of
people to come up with the design to
solve the problem
so unlike programming classes you might
have had before where it's well yeah
fill in this function that does this
thing here you're gonna have to design
the architecture and I think you'll find
it really challenging and this is the
part of the class where it will really
for those of you who are average - not
sorry average to below average
programmers this part will be really
hard I'm just warning you in advance but
it's good for you I'm not doing it to
like weed you out or scare you away I'm
doing it because I want to build you
into being really independent
programmers to set the bar high enough
and make you realize you can do
something you didn't know you knew how
to do so that big project will be due
March 6th and there'll be some labs to
help support that project so we'll do a
little peer design reviews and we'll
talk more about that later mmm ok
premier is installing good in the final
phase of the classes are standard data
structures and algorithms class oh I
don't want to do this right now from
here we'll get to it later so weeks
eight through 14 we're gonna learn about
how what a hash table is what binary
search trees are all this classic stuff
that goes in a data structures class and
during that time each of the labs is
going to be implement some data
structure algorithm in each of those
labs whenever you go in person the last
say 10 to 20 minutes depending on how
things work out the TA will lead you
through a good implementation of that
thing so it'll be a chance to reflect on
what you've just done and the lab should
be self-contained so it shouldn't feel
like an extra homework it's just a
chance to really think about a
particular implementation will also have
homeworks during that period and each
one of those homeworks is going to be to
apply a data structure or algorithm so
rather than implementing a hash table
you'll use them for something and I hope
you'll find it interesting and so
there'll be two of these two of these
homeworks they're gonna be released
after classes are over and those do you
can think of as extra practice or make
ups for homeworks you missed earlier
then I'll talk more about the drop
policies and grading in a moment and
during that time there'll be one
medium-sized data structure and
algorithms project where you won't have
to do all the architecture but you will
have to select the data structures and
think carefully about how to organize
your code and you'll have to implement
an algorithm that will allow you to
traverse a graph you'll learn what that
means later and so if you're curious you
can look at the calendar to see how
these three phases work and look at the
whole schedule but I won't talk about it
more right now so as far as what you
have to do each week there are labs and
these labs are required it's okay to
work on the labs ahead of time and while
the work in the labs is required for the
course being in person is not required
so if you want you could do the labs
from home and that's fine but especially
if you're somebody who is does not feel
like a strong programmer I think you'll
find them hopefully really helpful
especially at the beginning when you're
trying to get things set up there will
be some special project labs where
attendance is required those will be a
little later and I'll talk about those
in a different lecture but that's be
aware you can do things from home labs
are always gonna be due Friday at 5:00
so that way you know it's done and you
can your weekend begin I can begin and
then there's also some labs by the way
that are freebies there'll be one lab in
particular which is just go work on
project two and you'll get free points
for that one you don't have to show up
and then we're gonna have I guess sorry
and summarizing for the labs are all
that we have 14 of those they're worth
four points each and that's gonna come
to forty eight points the reason is that
it doesn't come to more points than that
is because we're gonna drop your lowest
two that's intended to cover any life
difficulties so because we have so many
students these drops are supposed to
handle your life emergencies so the
thing where you're about to submit your
code but then your computer crashed or
you know your internet went out or
whatever it may be sorry I know it's a
bummer you did this work and you're not
getting credit for it but we're gonna
drop two labs so that those kind of
emergencies gets moved out now if you
have some kind of really big life crisis
that's bigger than two weeks of course
we'll work with you and
sure things are better but for the run
of the mill you know
dog-ate-my-homework situations that's
what the drops are for they're not
intended to be well I didn't want to do
some of the work okay discussions those
will also be happening once a week and
those will be an hour each attendance
for these is not required you could earn
a gold point for every discussion you go
to and I'll explain what those are in a
moment so attendance is not taken the
first two weeks you can't your gold
points then but after that you'll be
able to accumulate these gold points and
basically what they are is they're extra
credit but it's extra credit that the
worst you do on the exams the more of
the gold points count up to a maximum of
double so if you go to ten discussions
and you get zero on the exams you will
get 20 points added to your final score
now it is not an advantageous strategy
to intentionally get zeros on the exams
that will not work out in your favor as
you'll see them the point totals later
but it's basically just another little
way so that if you're somebody is really
struggling you can demonstrate your
participation in the course and let us
know that you're really trying you're
thinking about things and that will give
us some measure of the fact that you're
doing well in the course even if you
maybe have trouble on some exam problem
you get stuck up we have homeworks so
there's gonna be seven total for credit
homeworks in the class homeworks one
through seven and there's also this
optional homework zero already available
homeworks 2 through 7 are all about
using data structures and algorithms to
solve some problem and homework one is
basically to be as we transition into
advanced programming it's a little mini
project or so many assignment you do
before you kick off that big design
project I alluded to and so these due
dates are gonna vary they're not gonna
be doing a particular day make sure to
check the calendar and so 7 of these 7
homeworks we're gonna drop to and since
there were 16 points that comes to 80
points total and again these are
intended to cover life difficulties so
if you have problems the drops are
supposed to handle this and as I
mentioned earlier homework 6 and 7 are
actually gonna be released during the
recitation week at the end of the
semester so again you can think of it as
practice if you want and if you missed
an earlier homework you can then do
those homeworks to make up for something
you missed earlier and then lastly we
have our projects and so the projects in
61b are fairly famous in terms of
really challenging you know there's
there's some infamy surrounding past
projects like get lit and editor and in
this semester I think there will be no
exception though I'm hoping this
semester that for for programmers who
don't have a lot of experience I'm
really hoping that not annihilate you
and make your life miserable and will of
course keep in contact because this
class was always a delicate balancing
act because I want to make it really
hard but I don't want to make it
miserable
okay so we'll be working together to
make sure it works well so projects
two of them are team projects so project
zero which will be released on the first
Friday of class that's gonna be 25
points then we'll have a solo project
that's 40 points that's gonna be a
two-week project then there's gonna be
this team project will be a three week
design project and then finally come
around to the solo and final project
which is seventy-five points so these
are small medium and large and on the
solo projects all of your work needs to
be around I'll be elaborating a bit more
in a future lecture about what exactly
your own work means but if you'd like to
read it now you can check out the
collaboration policy on the website and
it's always okay to talk to other
students in the class and help them to
bug and even bounce ideas back and forth
but your code really needs to be your
work and then I'll mention also that
these last two projects two and three
they have extra credit opportunities if
you turn in the the code early enough
that you pass the early submission tests
so basically it'll be some early tests
and if you get those right you'll get
some bonus points you'll get some bonus
points and then anbu those projects
there also be some stretch goals like
extra hard things you can do there will
earn you some gold points and that's
story of projects and we have exams so
exams in this class are going to be hard
if you've taken 61a you know what that
is like and you'll get used to this in
the academic environment at Berkeley so
the exams are targeted around a median
of around 60% and so 60% the point there
is not to crush you and say you know
nothing right because if you came from
high school 60s the worst grade you can
imagine depending on where you're from
but if you're from the United States
sixty would be like I don't know I'm in
trouble like someone's gonna like my
parents are gonna kick in my door and
set fire to my bed
I don't know whatever whatever it is the
parents tend to do probably not arson in
their own homes though but anyway the
point of these 60-percent mediums is to
let you know what you don't know which
is a little different that's to say
there's still more to go you haven't
mastered everything and there are
students that even though the median is
around 60 that get up a 90s on these
exams and it's a way to make sure that
everybody really has a fair grade
because if the exams if 90 is what's
considered good then someone who does
great they have no way to demonstrate
that they have no way to get the
feedback to know like yes you're really
doing super well and that's something
that's important to us here to really
give you a sense of like what it is that
you can strive for now what's
interesting is that you know students
often as I've mentioned in the previous
video had this mental model that some
students are destined for greatness and
some are not and that is really not what
this exam process about it is not about
like separating out those who have like
the special magical piece in their brain
that makes them do well because my
suspicion based on education research is
that if you had the resources and the
time and you approach studying
appropriately probably most everybody in
this class could get into the 90s on the
exams so anyway it won't happen but it
could and it's only you know our failure
as instructors in some ways we don't get
you all there sorry but we do it with
Kim
so then with these exams we're gonna
have two midterms there in the evenings
and there'll be one final exam and then
they're closed notes close book that you
can bring one sheet of handwritten notes
per exam so for the first exam you get
one sheet second exam you get 2/3 you
get three and there is one extra neat
thing which is that we actually have a
policy especially given the fact that we
know that many of you are trying to get
into the major and your grades really
matter if your midterm grades are worse
than you do on your final statistically
we can replace your midterm score so we
have a specific mechanical process you
can read all about on the website but
basically if you have a bad early
midterm that doesn't do meu the final
can actually help you or recover using a
process we call shadow the exam dates so
this date is confirmed this is
Valentine's Day
from 7 to 9 p.m. sorry that's the only
date I was able to get that fit
I tried they almost gave me the day
before but then they said we'd have to
have 20 exam rooms and actually said
that's fine but then I don't know then
they decided they didn't want to go that
many rooms and so that'll be the exam
time
and the drop deadline will be February
17th for the course so this semester is
a very special semester for many of you
because it's you know how you doing this
class may make the difference between
really getting into computer science or
not and so as a result we want to make
sure you get feedback on this first exam
well actually have advising sessions in
between the midterm and this drop
deadline so you can make a decision
about whether or not to drop the class
because once that drop deadline passes
you're pretty much committed so we want
to make sure that if you're somebody
that's really passionate about computer
science put you've struggled we're gonna
make sure that we can let you know you
need a little more time to catch up
before you really give 61b a shot so
that's the point and that's why sorry we
have to ruin your Valentine's Day
midterm two will be March 22nd probably
but I haven't gotten this confirmed and
then the final will definitely be May
10th at 7 p.m. now if you're somebody
that has alternate exam times we will
accommodate you don't email me directly
as I mentioned earlier will actually
provide a forum because we know there's
lots of people some people have exam
conflicts with the finals because we
have overlapping lecture times and just
things happen with 1300 people you can't
help but have alternate final or
alternate exam times and so we will have
a forum
don't worry yet we'll send up the
information last time so to summarize
all of this these are all the things you
do in this class you have labs and
homeworks that will help you understand
the basics of the class we have projects
that I'm hoping will build you into
independent programmers and they're
worth a lot more points and then we have
our midterms and finals to assess how
well you understood the theoretical
content of the class and so the reason
by the way these homeworks and labs are
not weighted very much is they're not
intended to be to evaluate your
competence they're there to help you
build your skills projects actually
serve sort of a dual role so that those
of you so you can get credit for the
project or the programming work you're
doing and you can also learn at the same
time so overall there are 768 points you
can earn and there's also extra
points on the website details how
there's 16 total extra credit points
that involves surveys and yadda-yadda
and that's the score you get so at the
end of the class the way we assign
grades is we take your total score and
then we compare it to a bunch of bends
the course website shows every single
pin but I've just given the highlights
here so if you need to see - there's 368
points you need to earn we don't really
typically do anything more complicated
than that you know way I don't you know
occasionally when someone's like barely
barely barely on the border and they've
been just really truly wonderful on
Piazza and I have the data to back it up
and say like that person answered like
200 student other students questions and
you're right on the border then
occasionally we'll bump people but it is
exceedingly rare so you should think of
these as pretty much what your score is
gonna be I don't do the thing that some
classes do where at the end of the
semester I say oh well we don't have
enough a so I'm gonna lower all the bins
and C's and so forth I mean I will if it
goes really badly like we really screw
up writing exams or you guys perform
differently than we expect but in the
last two times I've taught this class I
haven't had to change the bends so for
the most part the bends
I anticipate assuming that we do
everything right that this should be the
way the grades come out I will
definitely not make the grades any worse
so if it turns out that we accidentally
make the exams too easy then people
accidentally get grades that are too
high
but you should consider yourself the
goals you're striving for the ones on
the site and plan accordingly so as far
as the course goes we're gonna start off
real quick we already have the homework
zero that's out and you really should be
working on it if you haven't done it yet
I highly encourage you to do it before
your lab if it's not too late and
especially before you watch the second
lecture because I'm not gonna go through
and explain like this is a while loop
this is an if statement and everything
because you've done that before and this
is your chance to actually see what it
looks like on your own one of the things
I really really want to encourage you to
do in this class is experiment you're
not gonna explode your computer you may
as well try things out and because I
want you to be able to go out there and
do the things you want to do without
to get help from someone okay we're
still gonna give you help because this
is a very hard class but it'll be
important for you to really push
yourself to the limits before you you
come and ask for help not because we
don't want to but because it's good for
you then the other thing going on now is
we have labs this first week so lab one
is how to use the various tools which is
the java compiler and the git version
control software and you are going to
hate get at first okay there's gonna
tell you but you'll get used to it
everybody else has
maybe someday there'll be a slightly
better abstraction we all agree on for
how version control should work but till
then get to the story and then we have
lab 1b so you should do this actually
before lab 1 despite the weird naming if
you want to do work on your computer
which is pretty much everybody so this
lets you setup all the software in a
computer but if you run in dating
hitches we'll be there in lab one
exception to what I was saying earlier
about trying to explore on your own with
lab 1 and lab 1p there's a lot of
pitfalls so definitely ask us questions
early when it comes to computer setup
stuff because unlike programming
languages which you do have experience
with with computer setup there's all
kinds of annoying things that gonna
happen and I don't want you to waste
like three hours of your day trying to
get get install or something
so definitely talk to us about computer
setup issues ASAP project 0 will be
released Friday that is the date of that
second lecture and it will be due a week
later ok so you get 7 days to do this
project and it's gonna be a chance to
use all of the basic features of Java to
build a gravity simulator we can watch
planets orbiting in space and in this
project you're allowed to work in pairs
I'll talk a little bit more on Friday
about how those pairs work but the key
rule here is you cannot work with
somebody who's taken a java class if
you've not so you need to need to both
have taken a java class or both not have
taken a java class and so we'll have a
form other we'll send out so you can
sign up and set up your partnerships so
in the next video which I actually
recorded let's see
six months ago we'll do our first
programming assignment so now let's step
backwards in time and see younger me
tell you about your first Java program